LABS:

    1. Create a user account with the following attribute
        username: islan
        Fullname/comment: islam yahia
        Password:islam
    2. Create a user account with the following attribute
        Username: baduser
        Full name/comment: Bad User
        Password: baduser
    3. Create a supplementary (Secondary) group called pgroup with group ID of 30000
    4. Create a supplementary group called badgroup
    5. Add islam user to the pgroup group as a supplementary group
    6. Modify the password of islam's account to password
    7. Modify islam's account so the password expires after 30 days
    8. Lock bad user account so he can't log in
    9. Delete bad user account
    10. Delete the supplementary group called badgroup.
    11. Create a folder called myteam in your home directory and change its permissions to
       read only for the owner.
    12. Log out and log in by another user
    13. Try to access (by cd command) the folder (myteam)
    14. Using the command Line
           Change the permissions of oldpasswd file to give owner read and write permissions and for group write and execute and execute only for the others (using chmod in 2 different ways)
           change your default permissions to be as above.
    15. What is the maximum permission a file can have, by default when it is just created? And what is that for directory.
    16. Change your default permissions to be no permission to everyone then create a directory and a file to verify.
    17. What are the minimum permission needed for:
           Copy a directory (permission for source directory and permissions for target parent directory)
           Copy a file (permission for source file and and permission for target parent directory)
           Delete a file
           Change to a directory
           List a directory content (ls command)
           View a file content (more/cat command)
           Modify a file content
    18. Create a file with permission 444. Try to edit in it and to remove it? Note what happened.
    19. What is the difference between the “x” permission for a file and for a directory?
       
    20. Using vi write your CV in the file mycv. Your CV should include your name, age, school, college, experience,...
    21. Open mycv file using vi command then: Without using arrows state how to:
           Show all lines numbers
           Search for word age
           Step to line 5 (assuming that you are in line 1 and file is more than 5 lines).
           Delete the line you are on and line 5.
       
       
    22. List the available shells in your system.
    23. List the environment variables in your current shell.
    24. List all of the environment variables for the bash shell.
    25. What are the commands that list the value of a specific variable?
    26. Display your current shell name.
    27. State the initialization files of: sh, ksh, bash.
    28. Edit in your profile to display date at login and change your prompt permanently.
    29. Execute the following command :
           echo \ then press enter
           What is the purpose of \ ?
           Notice the prompt ”>” what is that? and how can you change it from “>” to “:”. (Search PS1, PS2, ...)
    30. Create a Bash shell alias named ls for the “ls –l” command
